# Security-

### Types of Secuirty risks
Every business knows they need its employees to thrive and survive Eventhough businesses know the risks their employees are in terms of security some organisations dont understand the severity of the errors their employees can cause; in some cases human error can be worst than technology error, for example when hardrives crash and become corrupt, yes it is very bad for the company but more times than less they are going to have back up of that information. On the other hand when it comes to human error it is a lot easier for a hacker, or people trying to get into the organisation's building to gain access important files. When in conversation a common human error that no one can avoid doing is saying things we wish we didnt. A good 'human hacker' will have the communications skills to win over the employees trust just by talking to them, and in this conversation the hacker can instigate certain topics than can easily lead the employee to say something he/she shouldnt have; or can say things to break these employees. Breaking employees can be done by saying things the hackers know are going to trigger something within the employee, this can be done by researching the employee and finding things that are sensitive to them. Additionaly, a huge plus for hackers is when it comes to 'human hacking' unlike software hacking eveything you find out is not encrypted so they dont need to spend copious amounts of time cracking codes, and trying to get into systems. Another couple examples of human error can be seen as employees using weak password and not changing them reguarly, being careless when it comes to handling data like sending emails containing imporant data to the wrong person and finally having low security awareness for example clicking links without thinking and the same with downloading random software. These types of risks are classed as human based risks.

A huge risk to businesses is software or systems crashes and most businesses will have some sort of hardrives within their business premises, that contains some imporant data or valuable data. When software or systems crash, this can cause data to become corrupted and unusable, occasionally you can use other software that will try to uncorrupt this data but if used incorrectly it can cause more harm than good. Additionally, hackers being able to access organisaitons software and systems is another software error/risk. No software on earth is unbreakable/impenetrable, when it comes to hackers gaining access to software and systes it is like a game of cat and mouse. A company creates a piece of software, then somebody breaks into it, the company will then need to make it harder for the hacker, the hacker will then again gain access, and this cycle continues until the hacker gives up, gets what they want or the creater faces they cannot keep this hacker out and also gives us. Lastly, software error can be described as a system failure, software failure or when someone is able to gain access to a system or software, it is that systems/softwares fault/error. These type of risks are classified as software risks/errors.

Going back to my first paragraph about human errors will lead me onto my next topic which is social engineering. Essentially, social engineering is the act of exploiting, tricking or using human psychology to gain access to buildings, data and systems. Social engineering is a very difficult risk to protect yourself and company from. Your businesses software and systems can be the most secure in the world, but all this secuirty means nothing if your employees can easily be used to gain access to a door, room or system. The same goes for the firewall that you have, it means nothing when an employee clicks on a malicious facebook link thinking its a funny video from their friend. A perfect example of social engineering is when someone is tricked into letting someone into the building without any credentials. A social hacker will try to build trust with the victim and give them a false sense of friendship, to maximize the hackers chance of being let in.

### Secuirty procedures




